Brady Lund: Hello, everyone, and welcome to Module 5. This module. We are going to talk about information, retrieval.
Brady Lund: and well, what is information? Retrieval
Brady Lund: while we've talked about having systems, databases that store large amounts, libraries of documents of information, resources, documents being actual resources that contain information that's been written down. And if we have systems like that, whether it be in a traditional library or be it in a context like a search engine.
Brady Lund: and the documents that have been retrieved
Brady Lund: or stored within a Google search engine. For instance.
Brady Lund: we're going to have a process of information retrieval by which people using that system actually obtain the specific documents they need.
Brady Lund: Because, as we've discussed, you know, these systems, these databases are going to hold potentially millions or even billions of resources. If you think about a Google search engine and all the data it stores about these different websites, you could potentially retrieve billions of resources. So
Brady Lund: how are you finding the one or 2 or few
Brady Lund: specific resources that are relevant to your search.
Brady Lund: The process of determining the best strategies best approaches to finding that information within a system within a database
Brady Lund: is the focus of information retrieval.
Brady Lund: So as we can see here on the right, this is a very basic, straightforward model of information retrieval. But it identifies for us the basic elements that we need to look at when we're studying the information retrieval process. So obviously.
Brady Lund: on one hand, we have the collection of documents. What are we storing? What is being stored?
Brady Lund: what is being documented? So our information resources in a library? That's books in a search engine. That's data about different websites, links, Urls to websites that we're going to present to users.
Brady Lund: Obviously, information about
Brady Lund: those documents is then going to be stored within our information retrieval system, our information system, and we represent the actual documents in our system
Brady Lund: through the use of metadata through the information organization principles we talked about last week. So we're building up here in this process where we talked about first, st what is information? What is documents?
Brady Lund: How do we organize documents. And now, how do we store those documents within the system and make them accessible so that people can actually use them? Because at the end of the day. That's the goal of what we do is making documents accessible to people. And ultimately, that's what makes information science a unique discipline. As we focus on making information accessible to people connecting people with information and technology.
Brady Lund: So we have our document collection. We have our system. And then we have a user. And the user is looking for specific information to satisfy what we call an information need information need simply being, I need information on topic X, and there's only a certain number of resources that are going to satisfy my need for information about X
Brady Lund: so X could be. I need information about this health condition I'm experiencing. It could be. I need a book about World War 2 for this history exam, or this history paper essay. I'm writing. It could be anything. But if we have some kind of specific information need, then we're going to the system to find
Brady Lund: documents that satisfy that need. Same thing. If we Google something? You know, we have an information. Need I need to know in what year was
Brady Lund: George HW. Bush born?
Brady Lund: If I need to know that. And I go to Google. Well, I'm going to Google to satisfy my information. Need my information need be, what? Here was George Hw. Bush born. So
Brady Lund: we have our information need. And then
Brady Lund: out there in the world there is X possibility in terms of the number of potentially relevant documents. So the number of documents in our system that if we use our example of George Hw. Bush's birth year
Brady Lund: there's X number of documents out there that can answer that question that have that birth year provided.
Brady Lund: In order to get
Brady Lund: one or more of those relevant documents. We need, however, to enter a query, and we see that represented on the left side of the diagram a query
Brady Lund: that will retrieve us the information we need. So based on what we're typing into a search box.
Brady Lund: It will impact what resources we receive.
Brady Lund: If we just type in bush year.
Brady Lund: we could get all kinds of things right, and many of them will not be relevant. Whereas we, if we type in George HW. Bush.
Brady Lund: birth year, we'll get a lot better, more specific results that will probably actually satisfy our information need. So these are important concepts here to crystallize the fact that we're not just about storing information in this discipline. But we're very much about, how do people access this information as well?
Brady Lund: So
Brady Lund: obviously, this lends itself to creating a lot of models. And within information science, we use a lot of models to help visualize processes. That we're interested in.
Brady Lund: A model is essentially like a early version of a theory depending on what classes you take in your academic program. They may be described a bit differently, but essentially a model is like a visualization of observations which could eventually lead to or inform a full fledged theory or a full fledged idea concept, pattern of behavior that can explain more about our world.
Brady Lund: So what we have here, for instance, on the right side on this slide is a visualization of what has been observed
Brady Lund: across many different studies of how patterns of behavior occur when people are interacting with the retrieval system.
Brady Lund: So we see, for instance, there's an information need on this side here, and that is represented through a query. So we have the information, need George Hw. Bush's birth year. We're typing something into the system
Brady Lund: on this side. This is the actual system itself. So we have our objects, our documents that are stored in our system. Those are represented and indexed using information organization principles. And the goal is that whatever metadata we entered, whatever principles we've used to organize our resources is going to align well enough with whatever is typed for a query that we get relevant, retrieved objects.
Brady Lund: However, that's not always the case, maybe what they've typed isn't very accurate. And so they're not getting what they're looking for. Or maybe we didn't enter good metadata. And in that case, maybe they're not finding what they need. And so
Brady Lund: we evaluate the resources we do get just as you would when you type in something in Google. Oh, does this make sense, or is this actually useful? Or do I need to change what I typed in? You're evaluating? And then at that point you can revise what you've entered after your query, or maybe you've determined. You know, this information I need doesn't exist, but maybe I can find something else
Brady Lund: that would be helpful to me. So
Brady Lund: maybe you're looking for something related to a specific concept, a specific ideology that existed in a point in time. And you've learned through your search that did not exist at that time, that ideology. So maybe you select a different ideology. Maybe you select a different time period. So you're refining what your information need is based off of the feedback that you're not. That doesn't exist out there
Brady Lund: for that specific time period. So again, this is supported models like this one are supported through observing how people have interacted with systems over time. But this is what we call a very linear model. You see, it works as a line. You know a direct line. You have an information need it leads to. How am I going to express this information need which leads to a query which leads to entering it into the system and then finding the resources.
Brady Lund: What we've seen more recently is studies that view behavior in different ways. Or take a more naturalistic approach to actually understanding how people interact with modern systems. If you think about
Brady Lund: how you interact with like Google, for instance.
Brady Lund: you're often not taking such a linear process. You're taking a process where I type something. Oh, here's 1 link I'm going to control. Click. So I can pull up a new tab with that resource. But I'm not done searching. I'm going to type in something else. I'm going to refine what I typed enter in something slightly different. And I'm going to end up with 10 different tabs based off of 5 different searches.
Brady Lund: And that's what's going to be the body of literature that I actually read. And so we've had models that try to explain this more naturalistic behavior that we've seen
Brady Lund: with the emergence of the first, st the Internet. And now we're seeing it even with interacting with large language models and those kinds of things.
Brady Lund: So what we have here is a slightly blurry version of Marcia Bates Berry picking model. And in this approach you can see, we have here query one that's been typed in for the 1st search.
Brady Lund: There's some results, but much like picking berries, you know, when you pick berries from a bush. If you've done that before, there's some berries that are very ripe and taste good, and then right next to it, you might find a berry that's rotten or doesn't taste very good. So you're going to throw that aside. I don't want to keep that one, but I do want to keep this one. You're going to pick from bushels. You know this this berry. I want this one. I don't same thing here with this process.
Brady Lund: You know, we've searched one thing, we've gotten certain results. We're gonna refine our query. See if we get some different results, we may have different thoughts as time progresses. Okay, maybe I'm gonna now try to search from this angle instead.
Brady Lund: So I refine. When I'm searching I get a different set of results. And then, as I said at the end of the day, maybe you've done 5 different searches. You've gotten 10 different results. And the last thing you typed in here, it looks quite different from what you typed in in your 1st search. It just gets refined over time, through learning more about what results you're getting and what's going on in your brain, as far as how you're thinking, well, interacting with these models.
Brady Lund: so
Brady Lund: obviously understanding these patterns of behaviors, understanding these models of information, retrieval are very important for how we design systems. And in fact, these
Brady Lund: different theories and models of information. Retrieval are really important
Brady Lund: for how we index and rank results in different searches, how we connect users with information. So one of the interesting things I always talk about with my master's students is Google Pagerank, because the individuals who created Google Pagerank were actually in the discipline of information science. Few people know that. But
Brady Lund: their Phd mentor that they were working with for a time actually came from a information science program, and they used principles common in information, retrieval to help create their pagerank algorithm that was going to determine how we rank the resources when somebody searches in Google
Brady Lund: and basically the idea behind page link is we're going to rank things based off. How many times other websites have linked to them, creating basically a citation index where the things that are being cited the most by other people are probably the most important and relevant. So we rank those at the top, and that's based off
Brady Lund: decades of studying human behavior, of citation patterns, of how people link information together to determine the best way. And obviously that was seen as pretty promising, because Google obviously has really capitalized on the search engine market. So we use these patterns in the everyday design
Brady Lund: creation of systems, creation of user interfaces as well to optimize and get the best results and best resources to people, because ultimately the goal of everything we do in designing systems and designing databases and working with technology
Brady Lund: is to make it so that people want to use it at the end of the day. We can create the best product in the world in our minds, but if nobody's going to use it, it doesn't have very much value, and that is the importance of studying information retrieval.
Brady Lund: So as with every week. Please work through the activities for this week. Please feel free to email me if you have any questions, and I'll see you again for our next module, where we will actually be talking a little bit about our midterm. Thank you.